<div class="container">
	<div class="col-md-12">

		<h3>1.0 OUR CORE BELIEFS REGARDING USER PRIVACY AND DATA PROTECTION</h3>
		'95 User privacy and data protection are human rights

		'95 We have a duty of care to the people within our data

		'95 Data is a liability, it should only be collected and processed when absolutely necessary

		'95 We loathe spam as much as you do!

		'95 We will never sell, rent or otherwise distribute or make public your personal information
		<br><br>
		<h3>2.0 RELEVANT LEGISLATION</h3>
		Along with our business and internal computer systems, this website is designed to comply with the following national and international legislation with regards to data protection and user privacy:

		'95 <a href="http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/29/contents">UK Data Protection Act 1988 (DPA)</a>

		'95 <a href="http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/en/ALL/?uri=CELEX:31995L0046">EU Data Protection Directive 1995 (DPD)</a>

		'95 <a href="http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv:OJ.L_.2016.119.01.0001.01.ENG&amp;toc=OJ:L:2016:119:TOC">EU General Data Protection Regulation 2018 (GDPR)</a>

		'95 <a href="https://www.legislation.gov.au/Series/C2004A03712">Australian Privacy Act 1988 (APA)</a>

		This site\'92s compliance with the above legislation, all of which are stringent in nature, means that this site is likely compliant with the data protection and user privacy legislation set out by many other countries and territories as well. If you are unsure about whether this site is compliant with your own country of residences\'92 specific data protection and user privacy legislation you should contact our data protection officer (details of whom can be found in\'a0section 9.0) for clarification.
		<br>
		<br>
		<h3>3.0 PERSONAL INFORMATION THAT THIS WEBSITE COLLECTS AND WHY WE COLLECT IT</h3>
		This website collects and uses personal information for the following reasons:<br>
		<br>
		3.1 Site visitation tracking<br>

		Like most websites, this site uses Google Analytics (GA) to track user interaction. We use this data to determine the number of people using our site, to better understand how they find and use our web pages and to see their journey through the website.

		Although GA records data such as your geographical location, device, internet browser and operating system, none of this information personally identifies you to us. GA also records your computer\'92s IP address which could be used to personally identify you but Google do not grant us access to this. We consider Google to be a third party data processor (see\'a0section 6.0\'a0below).

		GA makes use of cookies, details of which can be found on\'a0Google\'92s developer guides. FYI our\'a0website uses the analytics.js implementation of GA.

		Disabling cookies on your internet browser will stop GA from tracking any part of your visit to pages within this website.
		<br>
		3.2 Contact forms and email links<br>

		Should you choose to contact us using the contact form on our\'a0Contact us page\'a0or an email link like\'a0this one, none of the data that you supply will be stored by this website or passed to  be processed by any of the third party data processors defined in\'a0section 6.0. Instead the data will be collated into an email and sent to us over the\'a0Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP). Our SMTP servers are protected by\'a0TLS\'a0(sometimes known as SSL) meaning that the email content is encrypted using\'a0SHA-2, 256-bit cryptography before being sent across the internet. The email content is then decrypted by our local computers and devices.
		<br>
		3.3 Email newsletter<br>

		If you choose to join our email newsletter, the email address that you submit to us will be forwarded to\'a0MailChimp\'a0who provide us with email marketing services. We consider MailChimp to be a third party data processor (see\'a0section 6.0\'a0below). The email address that you submit will not be stored within this website\'92s own database or in any of our internal computer systems.

		Your email address will remain within MailChimp\'92s database for as long as we continue to use MailChimp\'92s services for email marketing or until you specifically request removal from the list. You can do this by unsubscribing using the unsubscribe links contained in any email newsletters that we send you or by\'a0requesting removal via email. When requesting removal via email, please send your email to us using the email account that is subscribed to the mailing list.

		If you are under 16 years of age you\'a0MUST\'a0obtain parental consent before joining our email newsletter.

		While your email address remains within the MailChimp database, you will receive periodic (approximately three times a year) newsletter-style emails from us.
		<br><br>
		<h3>4.0 HOW WE STORE YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION</h3>
		As detailed in\'a0section 3.2\'a0above, if you submit a comment to a blog post published on this website some personal information will be stored within this website\'92s database. This is currently the only occasion where personal data will be stored on this website. This data is currently stored in an identifiable fashion; a limitation of the content management system that this website is build on (WordPress). In the near future we\'a0aim to change the storage of this data to a pseudonymous fashion meaning that the data would require additional processing using a separately stored \'91key\'92 before it could be used to identify an individual.

		Pseudonymisation is a recent requirement of the GDPR which many web application developers are currently working to fully implement. We are committed to\'a0keeping it as a high priority and will implement it on this website as soon as we are able to.
	<br><br>
		<h3>5.0 ABOUT THIS WEBSITE\'92S SERVER</h3>
		This website is hosted by\'a0EUKHost\'a0within a secure UK based data centre located near Leeds.

		All traffic (transferral of files) between this website and your browser is encrypted and delivered over\'a0HTTPS.
		<br>
		<br><br>
		<br><h3>6.0 OUR THIRD PARTY DATA PROCESSORS</h3>
		We use a number of third parties to process personal data on our behalf. These third parties have been carefully chosen and all of them comply with the legislation set out in\'a0section 2.0. All 3 of these third parties are\'a0EU-U.S Privacy Shield\'a0compliant.
		<br>
		'95 Google <a href="https://www.google.com/intl/en-GB/policies/privacy/">(Privacy policy)</a>
		<br>
		'95 Mailchimp <a href="https://mailchimp.com/legal/privacy/">(Privacy policy)</a>
		<br>
		<br>'95 Gravatar <a href="https://en.gravatar.com/site/privacy">(Privacy policy)</a>
		<br>
		<br>
		<h3>7.0 DATA BREACHES</h3>\
		We will report any unlawful data breach of this website\'92s database or the database(s) of any of our third party data processors to any and all relevant persons and authorities within 72 hours of the breach\'a0if it is apparent that personal data stored in an identifiable manner\'a0has been stolen.
		<br><br><br>
		<h3>8.0 DATA CONTROLLER</h3><br>
		<strong>The data controller of this website is:</strong><br>
		NAME OF COMPANY, a UK Private limited Company with company number: 6023251<br>

		<strong>Whose registered office is:</strong><br>

		<br>
		<strong>And whose operating office is:</strong><br>

		<br>

		<br><br>
		<h3>9.0 DATA PROTECTION OFFICER</h3><br>
		NAME OF OFFICER<br>
		Office Manager<br>
		Telephone:
		Email: <br>
		<br>
		<h3>10.0 CHANGES TO OUR PRIVACY POLICY</h3>
		This privacy policy may change from time to time inline with legislation or industry developments. We will not explicitly inform our clients or website users of these changes. Instead, we recommend that you check this page occasionally for any policy changes.
		<br><br>
		<h3>11.0 COOKIE POLICY</h3>
		This website uses cookies to better the users experience while visiting the website. Where applicable this website uses a cookie control system allowing the user on their first visit to the website to allow or disallow the use of cookies on their computer / device. This complies with recent legislation requirements for websites to obtain explicit consent from users before leaving behind or reading files such as cookies on a user\'92s computer / device.

		The cookies in use to deliver Google Analytics service are described in the table below.
		<table class="content-table">
		<thead>
		<tr>
		<th><strong>Cookie</strong></th>
		<th><strong>Title</strong></th>
		<th><strong>Description</strong></th>
		</tr>
		</thead>
		<tbody>
		<tr>
		<td>__utma__utmb\
		\
		__utmc\
		\
		__utmv\
		\
		__utmz</td>\
		<td>Google Analytics</td>
		<td>These cookies are used to store information, such as what time your current visit occurred, whether you have been to the site before, and what site referred you to the web page.These cookies contain no personally identifiable information but they will use your computer\'92s IP address to know from where in the world you are accessing the Internet.

		Google stores the information collected by these cookies on servers in the United States. Google may transfer this information to third-parties where required to do so by law, or where such third-parties process the information on Google\'92s behalf.</td>\
		</tr>
		</tbody>
		</table>

		<h3>12.0 OPT-OUT</h3>
		In order to provide website visitors with more choice on how data is collected by Google Analytics, Google has developed the Google Analytics Opt-out Browser Add-on. The add-on communicates with the Google Analytics JavaScript (ga.js) to stop data being sent to Google Analytics. The Google Analytics Opt-out Browser Add-on does not affect usage of the website in any other way. A link to further information on the Google Analytics Opt-out Browser Add-on is provided below for your convenience.

		<a href="http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=None">http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=None</a>

		For more information on the usage of cookies by Google Analytics please see the Google website. A link to the privacy advice for this product is provided below for your convenience.

		<a href="http://www.google.com/analytics/learn/privacy.html">http://www.google.com/analytics/learn/privacy.html</a>
<br><br>
		<h3>13.0 DISABLING COOKIES</h3>
		If you would like to restrict the use of cookies you can control this in your Internet browser. Links to advice on how to do this for the most popular Internet browsers are provided below for convenience and will be available for the Internet browser of your choice either online or via the software help (normally available via key F1).
		<ul>\
		 	<li id="ie"><strong>Internet Explorer</strong><a title="Disabling cookies in Internet Explorer" href="http://windows.microsoft.com/en-GB/windows7/Block-enable-or-allow-cookies">http://windows.microsoft.com/en-GB/windows7/Block-enable-or-allow-cookies</a></li>\
		 	<li id="chrome"><strong>Google Chrome</strong><a title="Disabling cookies in Google Chrome" href="https://support.google.com/chrome/bin/answer.py?hl=en-GB&amp;answer=95647&amp;p=cpn_cookies">https://support.google.com/chrome/bin/answer.py?hl=en-GB&amp;answer=95647&amp;p=cpn_cookies</a></li>\
		 	<li id="firefox"><strong>Mozilla Firefox</strong><a title="Disabling cookies in Mozilla Firefox" href="http://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/Blocking%20cookies">http://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/Blocking%20cookies</a></li>\
		 	<li id="safari"><strong>Apple Safari</strong><a title="Disabling cookies in Apple Safari" href="http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=32467">http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=32467</a></li>\
		</ul>
	</div>
</div>
